What's up guys?
Welcome to module 15
where we're gonna be talking about hiring editors,
specifically finding vetting and managing your team.
Now, where can you find editors, seminar artists,
all these types of different roles, as I know it says where
to find editors here, but pretty much any
worker for your channel.
Now there are a few platforms, specifically three that I use
and they're used for different things.
Each has their own pros and cons.
So I'm gonna go over each one of them.
And in some cases you can look on two places,
three places or just one of these.
So we have YT jobs.
If you just search at YT jobs on Google,
you'll see a website called YT Jobs.
And this is best for verified professionals.
This YT jobs is pretty much like going on
Amazon to find an editor.
You have reviews, you have the editors
and one are vetted by the website.
You have reviews, you can see
how much they cost, all this different stuff.
But the thing is to make a post on YT jobs,
it costs money to do so.
Now, there are ways to go through YT jobs
and look at editors who have already made posts,
but YT jobs is a lot easier
to use when you make your own posts
because then people can see exactly what you're looking for
and message you and then you can review their portfolios.
Now, YT jobs are things that you can do on there for free.
Like I said, it's usable, but it's not super great
because then you'll be spending a lot
of time actually searching.
Um, and that's how they kind of get you to pay
because then you realize, oh shoot,
it's gonna be a lot more efficient
for me to make my own post.
And then I don't have to actively look through,
even though it might take 24, 48, 72 hours to find somebody.
At least you're not spending hours every day looking
through a bunch of different editors, thumbnail artists
and things like that.
But you just make one post, you come back,
check it three days later with nothing in between,
and then you're able to just look through who messaged you.
The notes here is it's cost money,
but you know, there's, it's normally pretty high quality
people and they're pretty vetted typically, uh,
especially if you use their reviews,
the next platform is Twitter or X.
Now this is actually severely underrated in my opinion
and I've been using this a lot more
and this has kind of been becoming my go-to.
And I'll actually tell you right now,
I personally have only used YT jobs one time ever
with over 20 monetized channels running, uh, things
for over three years now.
I've just never really saw the need to use YT jobs,
but it can definitely make things easier
and I know a ton of people who use it.
Um, so I would definitely like all of these.
I'd recommend these equally to be honest.
But I'm just, I wanted to also give you my experience.
I know some people in, some coaches in the community have
actually used YT jobs a lot more than me
and they've had success with it.
So all of these, I would rate them equally,
but like I said, I have notes here for a reason, right?
So with Twitter and X, it's specific to niche skills,
meaning you can just go in the search bar of X or Twitter
and search up something super specific.
And now you can't really just search up editor for hire.
But for example, if I was making a ROBLOX channel,
I could search up a Roblox editor for hire.
Or if I'm making finance videos,
I could do finance editor for hire.
And if you're doing a specific niche like
muck bang editor for hire or
Super specific or Call of Duty
or something like Valant Montage editor for hire,
you'll definitely find something like that.
And same thing if you do valant thumbnail artists for hire
or Minecraft thumbnail artists for hire.
If you have something very specific
where in general the broad niche
or the sub niche has, um, a specific style to it,
you could just search that on X and go through
and find someone pretty, pretty easily.
And yeah, so for example,
search Eye ril, thumbnail artists, et cetera.
So it's best for specialized and specific work,
and that's what I use it for.
But I'll be honest, a good portion of niches, maybe 50%
or even more, you can't do this for
because your niche is something that doesn't have, you know,
a specific style to it
where you could just search that on Twitter.
So if you're in the case where you're in a niche like that
and you don't wanna spend money on YT jobs,
you can go on Discord servers.
This is a free option. You'll get a lot
of people in your dms, but it requires heavy lifting
because on Discord, that's
where you're gonna find the lowest quality.
The best quality will be on Twitter simply
because you know, most people posting their stuff,
their thumbnails, their edits on Twitter, you know,
they're not gonna be posting it if it's really bad.
And typically they're posting on Twitter,
they're gonna be at the top of the feed.
If it has more likes, more
interactions, meaning it's better.
So it's pretty easy to find what you're looking for.
Uh, if you have, you know, something specific YT jobs,
you could still get some lower quality people.
But like I said, you still see their portfolio
and they have reviews on there.
So make sure you're going through the reviews, checking,
does the, do the reviews sound legit?
You know, um,
and to make a review on YT jobs, the reviewer has
to actually log in with their channel.
So take a look at the channel.
You know, you could do some vetting yourself,
it's not too complicated, but on Discord, this is kind
of like the easiest to navigate through
and you're gonna get a lot of dms,
but a lot of the people here are really bad
because the bad people don't have reviews on YT jobs since
nobody is working with them
and they're not getting interaction on Twitter.
So these two, it's harder to find, you know, low quality
but discord, it's just as easy for a low quality person
to DM you as a high quality person.
And in fact, most high quality editors, uh,
or at least the very highest echelon
of editors aren't even spending their time on Discord
servers and on Discord pretty much there's just like a
section called Jobs or something
and you go in there, make a post saying, Hey,
I'm looking for an editor, blah, blah, blah.
And the editors will have to manually go
through and then DM you.
And most really high quality
editors aren't even looking there.
And don't get me wrong, I'd say most of the editors,
some artists I've worked uh,
with have been from a Discord server.
I'm just transitioning to Twitter now
'cause I feel like it's getting more sloppy
and sloppy every single day with the Discord servers.
So these are the three options.
I recommend them each equally
because like I said there, there's pros and cons.
One's easy to go through, but you'll have to filter more.
One costs money and one only works for some niches.
So it really just depends on your specific situation.
Now assuming you're going through Discord,
you gotta filter for quality.
So you gotta have portfolio requirements.
So when you're asking for someone's portfolio, make sure
that you're asking for website portfolios
or for like thumbnails, something like a beehan.
Do not accept anybody that has like, oh,
my portfolio's on Google Drive, like drive.google.com,
here's all my videos or my thumbnails.
Uh, don't accept Discord attachments,
don't accept YouTube playlists.
Pretty much, uh, it's, it's pretty simple.
If you have an editor only check their portfolio if
it's a website, URL.
And what I mean by that is they'll typically specifically
have a website where the website's like a portfolio
website for their editing.
Uh, and for thumbnails it's either also a portfolio website
or it's like a beehan
or something similar, which Beehan is just like a
portfolio for images.
And this is gonna instantly filter out
low quality applicants.
I will sit here and tell you right now, I went
through at least somewhere between one
and 5,000 editors, thumbnail artists and whatnot.
And every single time that it's been a drive link
or a Discord attachment
or a YouTube playlist every single time,
which has been at least multiple hundreds
of links I've clicked
through maybe even like a thousand that are clicked through.
Not one has been good, okay? Not one has been good.
I'm telling you from experience waste of time.
And this just instantly filters out low quality applicants
professionals have real portfolios
because, you know, if they're good at what they do,
they're gonna put together something good
to present to you, right?
Who's gonna have a really great portfolio videos,
but then their portfolio is just a Google Drive link.
They want a really, really nice looking editing on a
really nice looking website.
Now for your job post requirements, you always wanna say
that you have that you want minimum
one to two years of experience.
Always ask for portfolio and dms only don't link your niche
and public chats.
So for the job post requirements,
you wanna always say minimum one year
or at least two years of experience.
Number two, ask for the portfolio and dms
and always say, you know, no Google Drive links, no.
Like make sure that you say you must have a
portfolio website, okay?
And then also just simply don't leak your
niche in the public chat.
Like don't give an example of the video that you want edited
and give your niche, right?
If you have a different niche that's similar,
that's actually a pretty decent idea, uh, to post in there
so that you're not leaking your niche
but you're finding editors who edit in the style you want.
Um, but when you're providing actual examples of
how you want your niche edited, only provide that in dms
because you know, you're in a public discord server.
Yes, you're posting the jobs tab that's meant for editors
and thumbnail artists and whatnot to be looking through.
But anybody else that is posting jobs
as well will see your message.
And that's, those are your competitors.
Those are other people trying to, you know,
get into the YouTube automation space.
So you might just be giving out your niche for free.
And I'm not gonna lie, I found one or two niches myself
because somebody was silly
and posted, um, you know, the niche that they're trying
to have, uh, as an example in the, uh, the actual jobs chat.
So, you know, don't do that.
Not a smart idea because I actually ran a successful channel
before just by stealing somebody's niche in there.
You know, some people will actually do that
and uh, literally sit there
and their niche research will be,
and I actually recommend sometimes.
Um, but the thing is, uh, 90%
of the time people send trash niche niches anyway,
but you know, sometimes you can get lucky.
Uh, I wouldn't say this is the number one method
for niche research, but if you're trying
to find different ways to look, look around,
there's plenty of ways to niche research.
If you're only using tube gen or only using YouTube
or only one thing, like try
and find as many ways and kind of mix it around.
The more you switch up the niche research,
the more you'll get different results.
And that's the real trick to finding a good niche is trying
to switch up your filters in tube gen, switch up
how you're searching, switch up where you're searching, um,
and that's how you're gonna find different results instead
of the same thing over and over.
Now, the actual hiring process, you want
to review someone's portfolio, right?
Does the work match what you need? Skip the interview.
If portfolio doesn't fit, normally I
don't even interview anyone.
Um, but I do typically get, if it's a editor, I ask
for a sample edit.
Um, so if their portfolio is bad, just skip them.
Uh, negotiate the price.
Always say you have another person that you're talking to.
Even if you don't, you should always just
say this for negotiation.
And I see too many people just, uh, getting an editor
where the editing's good,
but then I ask them how much they're paying
and it's way too expensive than what it should be.
Like. It's a good editor
and it looks good for the niche that they're trying to do,
but instead of paying $5 a minute,
they're paying $8 a minute, for example.
So on a 10 minute video, they're paying $30 over to
what they should be paying just 'cause
the editor finesse 'em.
Um, and this is just gonna get the editor
to lower their price being like, when they say,
yeah, I'm $8 a minute.
Be like, okay, I'll get back to you tomorrow.
I'm talking with this other guy.
Literally wait 24 hours,
be like, and then message them back.
Yeah, this other guy is saying, you know,
he'll do $5 a minute, but you know, I really like your work.
Uh, this is what the one I do the most.
I always offer them a little more.
I'm like, yeah, this guy's offering five minutes,
$5 a minute, but he is a little bit worse than you.
Would you be willing to do $6 a minute?
'cause I think it's worth it for your style.
And they're not gonna be like, no $8
or seven 90% of the time.
Um, and if they do, then just keep, keep going, move on.
And if it's worth it, then maybe, you know,
just agree to what they're saying.
But you know, this almost always works for me
and that's pretty much the way I do it.
Number three, share your samples.
So have them review examples of what you want
and make sure they actually understand the
style of editing you want.
And number four is a free trial for video editors.
A 32nd free trial is all you need.
If they don't wanna do a trial, just don't work with them.
It's that simple. For thumbnail artists
portfolio is usually enough.
You don't really need a trial from them
because I mean, you just don't,
I feel like this speaks for itself.
You're looking at an image.
If their portfolio looks like what you're looking
for, that's good enough.
Normally it, it's more typical for an editor
to lie about their portfolio.
Like put something on there that's not actually theirs
or they like, it's just you're not always gonna find like
the exact style of editing you want.
Maybe something close, but that's why you want the trial.
So the payment structure for video editors,
I already mentioned it a little bit before,
but you wanna do it on a per minute rate.
So maybe it's $5 per minute.
So if it's a 17 minute video,
they're getting paid $5 times 17.
If it's 12 minutes, it's $5 times 12.
For thumbnail artists just do a flat rate per thumbnail.
Um, exact rates are gonna be completely niche dependent.
I mean, some niches you can literally have $500 per minute
if you're doing like a full on like 3D movie,
Netflix quality animation or something like that.
And some niches are a dollar a minute.
Realistically, I'd say most niches are in between like four
to $10 a minute.
But I'm just saying like, this is totally niche dependent,
so don't ask, Hey, how much does
it cost to get a video edited?
That just doesn't not make sense.
That's like saying how much does it cost to produce a movie?
And anybody watching this knows super well that, you know,
a Marvel movie, you might have a $500 million budget
and then an indie movie might have a $5 million budget.
And it just totally depends.
So, uh, red flags
and common issues, the number one hiring mistake
is only hiring one person.
And that's because the most common issue by far is delays.
You ask for three days and
after three days you get, my mom died.
And trust me, I've gotten this so many times.
Or like saying a family member died like 90%
of the time they're genuinely just lying.
They say there's a weather disaster, some random BS excuse,
and obviously anything is possible,
but I'm telling you just from experience,
this isn't like mean of me to say
because I know in a lot
of cases when these editors
are thumb nail artists are lying.
And the solution is just always have options.
Make it clear they can be replaced on one scheduling error
without decent prior notice.
I always tell my editors once I hire them, I'm like, Hey,
here's a schedule by the way.
I have another editor. And if you miss a date, even once,
you'll be immediately let go.
Uh, unless you give me, you know, some, uh,
notice beforehand that you will be unavailable
for me to account for.
So I, I literally tell them, you know, the goal is to,
to keep the editor on edge, like
as rude as that kind of sounds.
And it's like, I kind of feel bad sometimes
for keeping them on an edge, but the truth
is you just can't feel bad.
And that's because, you know,
I've just had too many scenarios
and everybody in the group has had too many scenarios
where editors will make up excuses,
they take on too many clients
and then they're not able to fulfill
because they have too many people they're working with.
And then they just want to come up with an excuse so
that you feel bad when they're just
low key manipulating you.
Another red flag is like middle manning.
Some people act as editors
but actually outsource to others for cheaper.
So this leads to quality issues and communication problems.
Um, obviously because you're gonna have different quality on
every video because they're working
with a different editor on every video,
and it's gonna be hard to communicate
because let's say you're in
a different time zone as a middleman.
The middleman's in a different time zone as an editor,
you send a message and it's just like really hard
to communicate, obviously.
Um, and try to verify, ask for them
to like screen record the process.
What I like to do, the best one is, uh, call them, uh,
or ask if you can call
and have them like screen share,
uh, in the middle of the edit.
Like once they send you the first version, be like, Hey,
can we schedule a call
so I can see that you actually edit it.
It just be straightforward.
Um, and be like, yeah, I don't, I
wanna make sure you're not a middleman.
Um, because how are they going to fake that?
They should be able to screen share
and show you, um, you know, the edited file, um,
and go through and like kind of go through
and show that they edited it.
You know, and I've had this actually happen to be
before in a really funny case where I was working
where I wanted to editors as always, I got one editor
and then I got a second quote unquote editor,
but the second editor was actually a middleman.
Geez, I just looked outside. It was so foggy.
Anyways, totally unrelated, my bad.
But anyways, the second editor was actually middleman,
middle Manning to the first editor.
I like, I don't think you understand how unprobable that was
to happen, but it did happen
'cause I found them in two different Discord servers.
So kind of insane. Um,
and the first editor, editor, my first video,
and then the second editor, I was gonna work with the,
you know, the second editor,
but it was actually a middleman guy.
And the first editor DMed me being like, Hey,
are you working with this agency or this middleman guy?
Uh, and he showed me that he was editing the video.
And uh, I immediately just like blocked the middleman guy
and told the first editor, Hey, finish the video
and I'll, I'll just pay it directly to you.
You know, um, because why would I pay more?
Uh, and pretty much what happened,
the reason I actually was gonna pay more
for the second editor because his portfolio was higher
quality, uh,
but then I was actually just
gonna get the same quality as before.
So I was literally about to pay a middle manning fee
expecting higher quality,
and I was gonna get the same quality.
So that's just happened to me before.
Thankfully the only time that it's happened
to me, I was able to catch it.
And now since then, I've, um, added some processes
to make sure that this doesn't happen again.
Um, some other red flags.
All these red flags by the way, are written down.
If it's happened to me personally before
or happened to somebody I know, like a Dave or,
or a coach in here.
So don't be like, oh, he's just writing these down.
You know, you should, you know, really consider these
because this has happened like multiple times to me.
All of these. Um, so quality dips throughout the video.
So pretty much the start of the video is good.
And then as the video gets like long,
like the first minute's, great, the second minute's a little
worse and a little worse.
And then by minute 15, the editing's garbage,
it's just like the editor wants
to edit the start really well so
that when you're first watching it, you're like,
oh my gosh, this is so good.
Um, and then by the end of the video, it's really garbage.
Um, that happens a lot.
Quality dips over time,
meaning the first video they send you is great.
The second video they send you is great.
Then the third one's a little worse.
And then by, you know, two months into working with them,
they've gotten totally lazy
'cause they feel like their spot's secure.
And this is why you want to kind of keep 'em on
edge, that they can get fired.
Um, inconsistent availability.
Just, you know, not being available just happens a ton.
Or, you know, just making excuses
like I talked about before.
And yeah, just making excuses before deadlines.
Um, so when to fire versus when
do you just give 'em another chance?
And this answer is pretty simple. Almost always fire them.
It's just not worth the headache.
Simply, I'm telling you, this has happened to me.
I fired like, you know, 20, 30 editors, maybe 40.
I, I've worked with so many editors
and I've fired so many of them.
There are plenty of editors.
Your time is better spent finding a reliable one than
fixing a flaky one.
Trust me. And how do I communicate with them?
I normally talk to my editors on Discord,
but realistically just do whatever's easiest for the editor.
That way, you know, the,
normally these editors are in different time zones,
so you wanna communicate with them in the way
that they prefer, um, you know, suck it up.
You're trying to make money. If they wanna use WhatsApp,
just download WhatsApp.
Um, so time zones know their time zone
and adjust expectations accordingly
and make sure that you're messaging them during their times.
Maybe even change your sleep schedule by an hour or so,
or, you know, just figure
Something out so that you can communicate
with them as early as they can.
Because if you're sending them messages when it's the middle
of the night for them, and then they have to wake up,
answer your messages, and then they're sending you messages
back when you're sleeping, that's gonna be annoying.
So try and figure it out, like at
what time do they wake up and start working?
You can even ask them like, Hey, I'm in PST,
can you tell me at what PST times you're actively working?
And then if they're like, I'm working from, you know,
3:00 AM PSD to 10:00 PM PSD, try and get your questions in
and communicate with them at 3:00 AM Or,
or just for an example, like just, you know,
obviously everybody's schedule's different,
but just figure out what works.
Uh, and yeah, just make it easy for them.
You want to reply quickly, just suck it up.
Use their preferred platform and go on their time.
It's just gonna make it easier for you
and, uh, you know, you're, you're trying
to make this your job and have some freedom here.
So just make it easier for the people
that are working for you.
And that's gonna be it for, uh, module number 15.
I'm gonna see you guys in module 16. Goodbye.